README.md, before:

---
title: Eugenio Panadero's resume
author: @azogue
date: 2020-06-12
---

# Eugenio Panadero [![availability][badge_availability]](#skills) [![senior_level][badge_level]](#professional-experience) [![preferred_language][badge_language]](#languages)

- [x] Spain, Alicante (CET🕑), working **remote**
- [x] [eugenio.panadero@gmail.com](mailto:eugenio.panadero@gmail.com)

Developer with 12+ years of experience (last 5+ focusing on `Python3`), interested in web applications, data analysis & ML, IoT, home automation, and the energy & electrical industrial sectors.

## Skills

* **High adaptability** to new problems, new frameworks, and new teams, after a long career developing software for web apps, desktop apps, microservices, ESP microcontrollers, industrial automation, and home automation.
* **Domain expertise** on Energy efficiency, Systems Modeling, HVAC systems, Building Services engineering &+.
* Expertise on code debugging and code refactoring, TDD, MVC pattern, OOP, HTTP methods and RESTful arch.
* **Problem-solver**. Proactive, self-directed and solution-oriented, with ability to evaluate complex problems, manage, delegate and prioritize appropriately, to successfully carry out projects of any size.
* **Quick learner**. Love to work on multidisciplinary teams and dive into new technologies or stacks.
* **Good communication skills**. Assertiveness and security in the exposition of ideas, and the ability to listen and learn in the ongoing dialogue with my colleagues.

## Tech stack

* Deep experience with `Python` _aiolibs_ (`aiohttp`, `aiopg`, `aioredis`, `aiojobs`) and `flask` for **WebDev**, and _PyData_ stacks (`pandas`, `numpy`, `matplotlib`, `scipy`, `sklearn`, `seaborn`, `bokeh`) for **DataScience**, and fluent with GIS tools, OpenCV, PyTorch, `networkx`, `selenium`, `numba` &+.
* Proficient with all kinds of **SQL/NoSQL databases** (MySQL, PostgreSQL, InfluxDB, MongoDB), message **brokers** (MQTT, Redis, Celery), and **containerization**/virtualization systems (Docker, VMs).
* Skilled unit & integration test writer with `pytest`, hands-on experience with CI/CD workflows and environments (Travis CI, Gitlab CI, `tox`, OpenAPI/Swagger).
* Markdown lover, competent with HTML templating and CSS[^1], clumpsy but functional on (Virtual)DOM dev.
* Comfortable with all kinds of Linux environments, but also with Windows & macOS desktops.

## Professional experience

`2019-2020`

Full remote position as **Senior Python Backend Developer** on a small agile team, to support new products and company processes for [Remak a.s.][company_remak].

* Building a huge platform on micro service architecture, by creating **async microservices** and other tools such as _Excel parsers_, _DLL wrappers_, or _SolidWorks API controllers_,
* working with Gitlab CI, Sentry, OpenAPI spec, and `poetry` & `pre-commit` hooks,
* and applying domain expertise on HVAC systems.

`2017-2018`

**Freelance developer**, solving automation problems and helping to create IoT products for companies, like:

* a backend development and cloud deployment for an IoT commercial product, with real-time data processing, push alerts, and a `flask` JSON API for companion apps, using InfluxDB and Mongo databases, JWT auth, `Celery`, `Redis`, `Gunicorn` and `Nginx`;
* the design and development of an IoT product based on ESP32 SoC, related to sleep measurement, under criteria of energy efficiency and secure communications.

`2015-2016`

**Self-training period** developing small personal projects of increasing complexity,

* learning `Python3` scripting and data analysis toolkit from a MATLAB expert PoV,
* updating `C` and `C++` knowledge on **firmware programming** for Arduino and other SoC families,
* and embracing **FOSS** (_free and open-source software_) and the **maker culture**.

`2007-2015`

**R&D Engineer** and **Product/Project Manager** at [CYPE Ingenieros, S.A.][company_cype],

* leading agile teams of Software Engineers to create and maintain technical desktop apps for Windows,
* acquiring deep domain expertise on areas such as Energy Performance of Buildings, HVAC systems, Solar energy, Acoustics, or Fire Dynamic Simulation,
* creating analytical and numerical algorithms on `MATLAB` (for PoC) and `C` to model physical systems and solve Building Services related problems,
* and falling in love with Software Development and programming.

`2006-2007`

**Technical Support Engineer** in the Building Services Department at [CYPE Ingenieros, S.A.][company_cype],

* writing technical manuals and giving one-to-one support to architects and engineers using the company's technical software for Architecture, Engineering and Construction.

`2006`

Paid scholarship at [Pikolinos][company_pik], as **Assistant to the Chief Operations Officer**,

* learning about raw material logistics in the footwear industry.

## Education

My primary STEM _orthodox_ education is a **BSc+MSc in Industrial Engineering** by [Universidad Miguel Hernández de Elche][university] 🎓 (ScD equivalent, B+5U), but I consider myself a **perpetual learner**, always rounded by tech before and after that, since I was a child playing with my father's [MSX][msx] to nowadays when I populate my house with custom-made & custom-programmed ESP32 SoC :)



During this long period I had time to attend and learn from many and very varied courses ranging from one on forensic fire analysis 🔥 to another on object recognition with OpenCV3 ⡳, going through building acoustics 🔊, solar installations 🔆️, 3D modeling 🚧, or deep learning with PyTorch 🧙, but I've always had a **project-focused orientation** when working, so that's where I've learned the most.



I've also taught some courses and classes, ranging from usage of Building Energy Analysis tools to teaching the basic chemistry of wine 🧪 to a future oenologist, but as a **curiosity-driven** person, I enjoy it much more when I'm the one who's learning, surrounded by people to learn from.

## Languages

- **Spanish**, at native level
- **English**, with full professional proficiency
- **`Python3`**, always _Black_, PEP8-compliant, documented, tested, usually typed, and readable
- Fluent in **`C`**, comfortable reading `C++`, `Java` & `JS`, rookie on `shell` scripting
- Can read Portuguese, French, and almost any code written by a human :)
- Happily forgetting others like `MATLAB`, `VBA`, or `Excel` at expert level because of lack of use.

## Social profiles | Free time

I'm (consciously) not very active on social networks, but you can find me on **[GitHub][github_p]**, **[GitLab][gitlab_p]** and [LinkedIn][linkedin], or ping me at [Telegram][telegram].



When I have some time to spare I like to contribute to open-source projects like [HomeAssistant][ha_contrib] or play with data analysis or data visualization tools (like [this one for an _Excel formulae_ logic parser][eq_parser] or [this other one to plot psychrometric charts][psychrochart]), but what I really love is to just read a good Sci-Fi novel 🚀 in a quiet place 🏝, or enjoy a nice dinner with my soul mate 🥂.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



# Usage Instructions

This personal `resume` is maintained in a markdown file, using the readme file of this repo, so Github renders it beautifully for any visitor to come looking.



To produce a _shocking_ visualization of this document, hoping into getting that extra hint of curiosity so the reader pays attention, I use the [typora](https://typora.io) markdown editor, using a customized version of the [Monospace theme](http://theme.typora.io/theme/Monospace/), to get an HTML rendered version which _looks like a markdown editor_, and which I can easily print to PDF to obtain a 2-page document with a good layout, also hiding this chapter :)



To do the same as I, install typora + themes, copy the CSS files from this repo to the themes folder, and [adjust the CSS](http://support.typora.io/Add-Custom-CSS/) to your needs.



Finally, I use a [simple script](notebooks/html-post-process-css.ipynb) to remove the inline CSS and link to the original CSS files that Typora uses, using media queries to implement the user's `prefers-color-scheme`, and adding a [web component](https://www.webcomponents.org/element/dark-mode-toggle) to show a simple toggle to switch between themes. 


[^1]: For a less _nerdy CSS markdown-ish styling_ go to https://azogue.github.io, or download PDFs for the [light-theme version][pdf_light_theme] or the [dark one][pdf_dark_theme].

[badge_availability]: ./resources/badge_availability.svg "Availability: Full-time"
[badge_level]: ./resources/badge_level.svg "Experience level: Senior"
[badge_language]: ./resources/badge_language.svg "Preferred language: Python"
[company_remak]: https://www.remak.eu/en/company-profile "REMAK"
[company_cype]: http://www.cype.com "CYPE"
[company_pik]: https://www.pikolinos.com "Pikolinos"
[university]: https://www.umh.es "UMH"
[msx]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MSX "MSX (Wikipedia)"
[github_p]: https://github.com/azogue "GitHub profile"
[gitlab_p]: https://gitlab.com/azogue "GitLab profile"
[linkedin]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/eugenio-panadero "LinkedIn profile"
[telegram]: https://t.me/azoguelabs "Telegram"
[ha_contrib]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/commits?author=azogue "HomeAssistant contributions"
[eq_parser]: https://gitlab.com/azogue/gs-eq-parser "Google Sheet Equation Parser"
[psychrochart]: https://github.com/azogue/psychrochart "PsychroChart"
[pdf_light_theme]: https://azogue.github.io/resumes/resume_eugenio-panadero__printable.pdf "Resume (PDF, light md theme)"
[pdf_dark_theme]: https://azogue.github.io/resumes/resume_eugenio-panadero.pdf "Resume (PDF, dark md theme)"

Commit message:

resume V1.0
* add 2-page PDFs
* minor fixes on links

README.md, after:

---
title: Eugenio Panadero's resume
date: 2020-06-11
---

# Eugenio Panadero [![availability][badge_availability]](#skills) [![senior_level][badge_level]](#professional-experience) [![preferred_language][badge_language]](#languages)

- [x] Spain, Alicante (CET🕑), working **remote**
- [x] [eugenio.panadero@gmail.com](mailto:eugenio.panadero@gmail.com)

Developer with 12+ years of experience (last 5+ focusing on `Python3`), interested in web applications, data analysis & ML, IoT, home automation, and the energy & electrical industrial sectors.

## Skills

* **High adaptability** to new problems, new frameworks, and new teams, after a long career developing software for web apps, desktop apps, microservices, ESP microcontrollers, industrial automation, and home automation.
* **Domain expertise** on Energy efficiency, Systems Modeling, HVAC systems, Building Services engineering &+.
* Expertise on code debugging and code refactoring, TDD, MVC pattern, OOP, HTTP methods and RESTful arch.
* **Problem-solver**. Proactive, self-directed and solution-oriented, with ability to evaluate complex problems, manage, delegate and prioritize appropriately, to successfully carry out projects of any size.
* **Quick learner**. Love to work on multidisciplinary teams and dive into new technologies or stacks.
* **Good communication skills**. Assertiveness and security in the exposition of ideas, and the ability to listen and learn in the ongoing dialogue with my colleagues.

## Tech stack

* Deep experience with `Python` _aiolibs_ (`aiohttp`, `aiopg`, `aioredis`, `aiojobs`) and `flask` for **WebDev**, and _PyData_ stacks (`pandas`, `numpy`, `matplotlib`, `scipy`, `sklearn`, `seaborn`, `bokeh`) for **DataScience**, and fluent with GIS tools, OpenCV, PyTorch, `networkx`, `selenium`, `numba` &+.
* Proficient with all kinds of **SQL/NoSQL databases** (MySQL, PostgreSQL, InfluxDB, MongoDB), message **brokers** (MQTT, Redis, Celery), and **containerization**/virtualization systems (Docker, VMs).
* Skilled unit & integration test writer with `pytest`, hands-on experience with CI/CD workflows and environments (Travis CI, Gitlab CI, `tox`, OpenAPI/Swagger).
* Markdown lover, competent with HTML templating and CSS[^1], clumpsy but functional on (Virtual)DOM dev.
* Comfortable with all kinds of Linux environments, but also with Windows & macOS desktops.

## Professional experience

`2019-2020`

Full remote position as **Senior Python Backend Developer** on a small agile team, to support new products and company processes for [Remak a.s.][company_remak].

* Building a huge platform on micro service architecture, by creating **async microservices** and other tools such as _Excel parsers_, _DLL wrappers_, or _SolidWorks API controllers_,
* working with Gitlab CI, Sentry, OpenAPI spec, and `poetry` & `pre-commit` hooks,
* and applying domain expertise on HVAC systems.

`2017-2018`

**Freelance developer**, solving automation problems and helping to create IoT products for companies, like:

* a backend development and cloud deployment for an IoT commercial product, with real-time data processing, push alerts, and a `flask` JSON API for companion apps, using InfluxDB and Mongo databases, JWT auth, `Celery`, `Redis`, `Gunicorn` and `Nginx`;
* the design and development of an IoT product based on ESP32 SoC, related to sleep measurement, under criteria of energy efficiency and secure communications.

`2015-2016`

**Self-training period** developing small personal projects of increasing complexity,

* learning `Python3` scripting and data analysis toolkit from a MATLAB expert PoV,
* updating `C` and `C++` knowledge on **firmware programming** for Arduino and other SoC families,
* and embracing **FOSS** (_free and open-source software_) and the **maker culture**.

`2007-2015`

**R&D Engineer** and **Product/Project Manager** at [CYPE Ingenieros, S.A.][company_cype],

* leading agile teams of Software Engineers to create and maintain technical desktop apps for Windows,
* acquiring deep domain expertise on areas such as Energy Performance of Buildings, HVAC systems, Solar energy, Acoustics, or Fire Dynamic Simulation,
* creating analytical and numerical algorithms on `MATLAB` (for PoC) and `C` to model physical systems and solve Building Services related problems,
* and falling in love with Software Development and programming.

`2006-2007`

**Technical Support Engineer** in the Building Services Department at [CYPE Ingenieros, S.A.][company_cype],

* writing technical manuals and giving one-to-one support to architects and engineers using the company's technical software for Architecture, Engineering and Construction.

`2006`

Paid scholarship at [Pikolinos][company_pik], as **Assistant to the Chief Operations Officer**,

* learning about raw material logistics in the footwear industry.

## Education

My primary STEM _orthodox_ education is a **BSc+MSc in Industrial Engineering** by [Universidad Miguel Hernández de Elche][university] 🎓 (ScD equivalent, B+5U), but I consider myself a **perpetual learner**, always rounded by tech before and after that, since I was a child playing with my father's [MSX][msx] to nowadays when I populate my house with custom-made & custom-programmed ESP32 SoC :)



During this long period I had time to attend and learn from many and very varied courses ranging from one on forensic fire analysis 🔥 to another on object recognition with OpenCV3 ⡳, going through building acoustics 🔊, solar installations 🔆️, 3D modeling 🚧, or deep learning with PyTorch 🧙, but I've always had a **project-focused orientation** when working, so that's where I've learned the most.



I've also taught some courses and classes, ranging from usage of Building Energy Analysis tools to teaching the basic chemistry of wine 🧪 to a future oenologist, but as a **curiosity-driven** person, I enjoy it much more when I'm the one who's learning, surrounded by people to learn from.

## Languages

- **Spanish**, at native level
- **English**, with full professional proficiency
- **`Python3`**, always _Black_, PEP8-compliant, documented, tested, usually typed, and readable
- Fluent in **`C`**, comfortable reading `C++`, `Java` & `JS`, rookie on `shell` scripting
- Can read Portuguese, French, and almost any code written by a human :)
- Happily forgetting others like `MATLAB`, `VBA`, or `Excel` at expert level because of lack of use.

## Social profiles | Free time

I'm (consciously) not very active on social networks, but you can find me on **[GitHub][github_p]**, **[GitLab][gitlab_p]** and [LinkedIn][linkedin], or ping me at [Telegram][telegram].



When I have some time to spare I like to contribute to open-source projects like [HomeAssistant][ha_contrib] or play with data analysis or data visualization tools (like [this one for an _Excel formulae_ logic parser][eq_parser] or [this other one to plot psychrometric charts][psychrochart]), but what I really love is to just read a good Sci-Fi novel 🚀 in a quiet place 🏝, or enjoy a nice dinner with my soul mate 🥂.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



# Usage Instructions

This personal `resume` is maintained in a markdown file, using the readme file of this repo, so Github renders it beautifully for any visitor to come looking.



To produce a _shocking_ visualization of this document, hoping into getting that extra hint of curiosity so the reader pays attention, I use the [typora](https://typora.io) markdown editor, using a customized version of the [Monospace theme](http://theme.typora.io/theme/Monospace/), to get an HTML rendered version which _looks like a markdown editor_, and which I can easily print to PDF to obtain a 2-page document with a good layout, also hiding this chapter :)



To do the same as I, install typora + themes, copy the CSS files from this repo to the themes folder, and [adjust the CSS](http://support.typora.io/Add-Custom-CSS/) to your needs.



Finally, I use a [simple script](notebooks/html-post-process-css.ipynb) to remove the inline CSS and link to the original CSS files that Typora uses, using media queries to implement the user's `prefers-color-scheme`, and adding a [web component](https://www.webcomponents.org/element/dark-mode-toggle) to show a simple toggle to switch between themes. 


[^1]: For a less _nerdy CSS markdown-ish styling_ go to the [source][repo_resume]/[web][ghpages_resume], or download PDFs for the [light-theme version][pdf_light_theme] or the [dark one][pdf_dark_theme].

[badge_availability]: ./resources/badge_availability.svg "Availability: Full-time"
[badge_level]: ./resources/badge_level.svg "Experience level: Senior"
[badge_language]: ./resources/badge_language.svg "Preferred language: Python"
[company_remak]: https://www.remak.eu/en/company-profile "REMAK"
[company_cype]: http://www.cype.com "CYPE"
[company_pik]: https://www.pikolinos.com "Pikolinos"
[university]: https://www.umh.es "UMH"
[msx]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MSX "MSX (Wikipedia)"
[github_p]: https://github.com/azogue "GitHub profile"
[gitlab_p]: https://gitlab.com/azogue "GitLab profile"
[linkedin]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/eugenio-panadero "LinkedIn profile"
[telegram]: https://t.me/azoguelabs "Telegram"
[ha_contrib]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/commits?author=azogue "HomeAssistant contributions"
[eq_parser]: https://gitlab.com/azogue/gs-eq-parser "Google Sheet Equation Parser"
[psychrochart]: https://github.com/azogue/psychrochart "PsychroChart"
[repo_resume]: https://github.com/azogue/azogue.github.io "Repository to make this resume"
[ghpages_resume]: https://azogue.github.io "Github Pages with this resume"
[pdf_light_theme]: https://azogue.github.io/resumes/resume_eugenio-panadero__printable.pdf "Resume (PDF, light md theme)"
[pdf_dark_theme]: https://azogue.github.io/resumes/resume_eugenio-panadero.pdf "Resume (PDF, dark md theme)"
